Chemistry is the study of matter, analysing its structure, properties and behaviour to see what happens when they change in chemical reactions. As such, it can be considered a branch of physical science, alongside astronomy, physics and earth sciences including geology.

An important area of chemistry is the understanding of atoms and what determines how they react. It turns out reactivity is often largely mediated by the electrons that orbit atoms and the way these are exchanged and shared to create chemical bonds.

Chemistry also is concerned with the utilization of natural substances and the creation of artificial ones. Cooking, fermentation, glass making, and metallurgy are all chemical processes that date from the beginnings of civilization. Today, vinyl, Teflon, liquid crystals, semiconductors, and superconductors represent the fruits of chemical technology. The 20th century saw dramatic advances in the comprehension of the marvelous and complex chemistry of living organisms, and a molecular interpretation of health and disease holds great promise. Modern chemistry, aided by increasingly sophisticated instruments, studies materials as small as single atoms and as large and complex as DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid), which contains millions of atoms

Chemistry has now split into many branches. For instance, analytical chemists might measure the traces of compounds in ancient pottery to discern what people were eating thousands of years ago.

Biochemistry is the study of the chemical processes that take place in living organisms, for instance in farming, and on the effect the resulting produce will have on our body’s metabolism. 

Organic chemistry, the study of compounds which contain carbon, connects up molecules in new ways to build and analyse an array of materials, from drugs to plastics to flexible electronics. Inorganic chemistry is the study of materials based primarily on elements other than carbon. Inorganic compounds can be pigments, fertilisers, catalysts and more.

Physical chemistry involves looking at chemistry through the lens of physics to study changes in pressure, temperatures and rates of conversion, for example, as substances react.



